# Project2-TheCoinCalculator

Project 2 – The Coin Calculator Documentation by Damian Hernandez

This is a project I created when taking a programming course during my third semester at JSU. The course I took was Computer Programming I, which covered many aspects of the programming language C++. The program I am documenting is written in C++ language. The name of this program is called The Coin Calculator and the purpose is to have a user input different amounts of coin types so that the program can calculate them all together for a total amount. This program accepts all different coin types such as pennies, nickels, dimes, quarters, and half-dollar coins. So let’s break this down further for a better understanding. Once the program starts up, there will be a welcome message displayed and a little explanation on what the program is. There will be a prompt for pennies that allows for the user to input a value. This input can be any number above or equal to 0 for this prompt and the rest of the prompts. Once the user has entered the number of pennies in, they hit the enter key and it will take them to the next prompt which is nickels. The prompts, in the order they are displayed in, will be pennies, nickels, dimes, quarters, and half-dollars. After the program has taken in the input from the user, there will be multiple statements that will display on the screen that serve as a confirmation on what numbers the user has put in. For Example, a user may see “You have 32 pennies.” or “You have 2 quarters.”, etc. The statements that display are also in the same order as the prompts and they display all coin types so a user can see what all amounts they put in for everything. Lastly, the program takes in all the user’s input and multiplies each one by their respective amount. For Example, user input for pennies will be multiplied by .01, user input for nickels will be multiplied by .05, etc. Once all the numbers have been multiplied out, the program will then add up all the products to get the total amount. The total amount will them be rounded to the nearest hundredth so that the final amount has no more than 2 places occupied after the decimal point. This is here to make it easier on the user to know exactly how much the total value of what their input calculates up to. I will now go in depth on what coding was used for this program, and how it was all implemented. To start off, the welcome messages and information output that explains the program, is done by the cout command. This is pronounced (cee-out). The cout command allows for a statement to be displayed on a screen for a user to see. In this program, the cout command is a major aspect because that is how the user can see the messages and prompts. Next, there are variables created and declared for each of these inputs to be stored in. This program deals with both whole numbers and decimal numbers, so it’s important to know which variables need which data type. The variables created for the user input will be whole numbers, so that will take the int data type. The variables created for the calculations will be in decimal numbers, so those variables will need a float data type. After establishing data types and variables, it was time to move on to the questions and user input. The cout command is used for each question, and the cin command is used to take in the input from the user. This is pronounced (cee-in). The cin command is another major aspect of this program because that is what allows the user to put in values. Without the cin command, this program would fail to work as it can’t receive any input from the user. The int variables, that were previously declared, can now have their values stored in by taking in what the user inputs. Each coin type has their own variable, thus meaning not all values of those variables will be the same unless the user input is the same for each of them. After the user has answered all the prompts, the program will then output what the user input using the cout command and the variables used for each coin type. This part of the code was put in so that it can test the program to make sure that all variables were placed correctly and that all user input was shown just for reassurance. After the output of confirmation, the next thing in the program is calculations. There is a variable created in the program called total_amount, which is setup so it can store the total of all the values in it. In this line of coding, there are the values of each coin being multiplied by the user’s input, after which will have all the products summed up and totaled together as one value stored in that variable. The program multiplies first before adding so that way the correct amount can be put in the variables. Then the roundf command is used to round the value to the nearest hundredth. The roundf command can only be accessed with the “#include <cmath>” typed in at the beginning of the program. The result of this value will be stored in a variable called final_amount. This variable will be used in the final output when the program tells the user how much they have when all the calculations and rounding have gone through. This program is a simple program that uses many output statements, calls for inputs and involves the use of different mathematical operations. This program introduces more than one library, which is the “#include <cmath>” library. This library allows for mathematical commands to be used throughout a program. Overall though, it was easy to code and great for those who are new to coding and want to learn more.
